The Inter-Ministerial Committee on Vuwani together with the Pro-Makhado Demarcation Task Team are scheduled to meet today (Tuesday) at noon to try and solve the municipal demarcation board issues and hopefully restore peace in the area. Corporative Governance, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs (Coghsta) MEC, Makoma Makhurupetje during a media networking session held in Polokwane on Monday confirmed that a meeting had been arranged with the task team. She said eight wards don t want to be part of the Lim 345 Municipalty, two want to fall under Thulamela Municipality while six are pushing to be part of Makhado. The problem is that Lim 345 is a legal entity recognised by law hence Vuwani residents should do things according to the law rather than engage in action protests, burning public buildings and denying learners an opportunity to go to school, she explained. It was learned that the Pro-Makhado Demarcation Task Team had failed to honour an invite forwarded to them to attend a stakeholder engagement dialogue on the Vuwani impasse that was held by the Provincial Government in Polokwane on Friday. Provincial Government Spokesperson, Phuti Seloba said government was disappointed by the no show to the dialogue by the task team as it is believed that the dialogue would have been an appropriate forum to discuss and find a common solution about the challenges in Vuwani and the surrounding areas. Government also registered its disappointment with the looming shutdown and appealed to the Vuwani and surrounding community structures to ensure that their leaders are back to the negotiating structures, Seloba said. Task Team acting Spokesperson, Alex Ramashau said Makhurupetje wanted the two parties to meet in Makhado whereas the problem is in Vuwani. He further indicated that they will meet at Vuwani Fire Station and hoped the meeting will bear fruit. Ramashau explained to Polokwane Observer earlier today that the situation in the area was calm with a continuing total shutdown of services, meaning learners are not going to school. He further said Makhurupetje has the powers to make things happen and resolve all the quarrels and urged her to do the right thing. Story: ENDY SENYATSI &gt;&gt;endy@observer.co.za