Stanford Lake College held its prize giving recently and awards were made in sport, culture and academics. Academic Honours &#8211; White Blazer are awarded to Grade 11s Elan Maritz, Muzzammil Cassim, Cailin Desmet, Christian Schmidt, Tanweer Ghood, Faisal Saleem and Mathabo Malesa. Grade 9s who received Brains Bars are Dimpho Mohuba, Danica Altenroxel, Nooreen Ghood, Malaika Mohlaba, Ayesha Ayob, Tayla Coad, Faaria Rhemtula, Lia Revelas, Akila Ramdharie and Husnaa Dada. Grade 12 learners who received Academic Half and Full Colours are Paul Dando (Full Colours re-awarded), Daniel Erasmus; Anke Vaughan and Kirsten Eastes (both re-awarded), Lebo Ramoshaba and Sidney Norton &#8211; Full Colours The recipients of Full Colour in netball are Anke Vaughan, Kirsten Eastes, Ledile Kgopong, Shikara Janke, Mokgadi Mangena (Captain of Limpopo u.16A), Jamela Maswanganyi, Rirhandzu Vermeulen, Lebo Rachidi and Normane Mnisi. Absent: Funi Motume and Lesedi Motume. Anya Robinson receives Full Colours for dancing. Mafanedza Maiwashe is the proud recipient of Full Colours in athletics. Academic Honours White Blazer is awarded to head girl, Larema Rix. The Junior Achievers in girls hockey are Hloni Mangena Limpopo, u.14A; Felicia Pilusa, u.14A; Lia Revelas, Limpopo u.15A; Motimu Mongwe, Limpopo u.15A and Tshedza Moila, Limpopo u.14B. The girls hockey players who received Half Colours are Robin Lacey, Kiara Davidson, Kate Wood, Tammy Dyason, Lara Dando (Limpopo u.16A), Sarena Wolff, Emma Melville and Felicity Baloyi (Limpopo u.16B). The recipients of Full Colours in boys hockey are Frank de Witt; Musonda Musonda; Jordan Lucas; Sonu Patel; Justyn Trueman (Limpopo u.18B), Nsuku Muyimane (Limpopo u.18B), Jackson Ndhlovu (Limpopo u.16A), Estian Botha (Limpopo u.18A), Kieran Taylor, Marc Stirling, Matthew Oosthuyse (Limpopo u.18A), Junior Netshituni (Limpopo u.16B), Christian Schmidt (Limpopo u.18B), Bryce Reed (Limpopo u.18B) and Mafanedza Maiwashe. The Junior Achievers in boys hockey are Rofhiwa Nevhutalu, (Limpopo u.16B), Reuben Middleton (Limpopo u.14B), Frank Dyason (Limpopo u.16B), Ethan Chidavaenzi (Limpopo u.16B), Ethan Jones (Limpopo u.14A) and Lance Trueman (Limpopo u.16A). Absent: Warrick Melville (Limpopo u.14A). Mfumo Mongwe (Limpopo u.18A) is the proud recipient of Honours in boys hockey. Lara Dando (Limpopo u.16) receives Half Colours in tennis. Nsuku Muyimane, Grade 11, is the proud recipient of Academic Full Colours. Rugby players who received Half Colours are Frank de Witt, Themba Kubayi, Jordan Lucas, Estian Botha, Aamir Mohammed, Maanda Radzilani, Naadir Mohammed, Lesedi Mothale, Christian Schmidt and Zola Nkambule. Absent: Jan Wallschus. Full Colours in rugby are awarded to Marc Stirling, Luke Burns, Mfumo Mongwe, Hlanhla Mohlaba and Mark Mahayi. Brains Bars are awarded to Grade 8s Josh Fairhead, Reuben Middleton, Megan Joynt, Anke Spies, Hloni Mangena, Mudathir Cassim and Danish Saleem. The Grade 10 recipients of Academic Full Colours are Melike Naude, Ledile Kgopong, Sinead Linder, fourth from left, Lara Dando, David Pullinger, Shaakira Hassim and Helene Werhahn. Emma Melville, third from left, received Half Colours. The Grade 11 recipients of Academic Half Colours are Ntokoto Mashimbye and Anya Robinson (both re-awarded), Mohammed Rhemtula, Yazdaan Tayob, Fatima Essaa and Mafanedza Maiwashe. (Absent: Lesedi Motumi, re-awarded). The Junior Achievers in swimming are Luca Wasley and Anika Schmidt. Half Colours in netball are awarded to Felicity Baloyi and Anneri Thom.