Local amateur football clubs Makotopong Young Stars, Sebayeng Big Four, Makotopong Brazil, Tau Tau, Mankga Junior Chiefs, Double Class, Manchester United and Yellow Tigers are through to the semi-finals of the second Solly Malatsi Legacy Foundation (SML) Top-16 soccer tournament after defeating their opponents in the last 16-matches of the competition at Madiga Sports ground recently. A clear sign of its success was that the tournament, despite the high profiled Premier Soccer League match between Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates being broadcast on the same, attracted no less than 1 000 spectators. Crowd favourites Mankga Junior Chiefs sent a very strong message to the rest of the sides by thrashing Green Aces 4-1 in an exciting clash characterised by clinical dominance spearheaded by midfielder and man of the match, Danny Chokoe who scored a brace. Another strong contender for the title was Double Class Football club who outplayed Sebayeng Zebras 2-0 to proceed to the quarter-finals. The Zebras defenders appeared to be at sixes and sevens every time Double Class attacked. Double Class eventually pounced on a defensive error by taking the lead in the 17th minute through a goal by Petro Nkosi. Zebras lost their defensive shape further when defender and Captain Ntebo Nkgapele was substituted late in the first half following an ankle injury. Soon after that Alphy Makwela scored the second goal for Double Class to bury the match. Zebras tried to initiate a courageous comeback in the second half but it was too little too late and too tame to harm Double Class whose backline was solidly protected by central midfielder Nelson Makhubele. In the other match Manchester United beat defending champions Mahlallane Peace Lovers 2-1. Manchester United started the match on a high note, showing determination, experience and prowess and eventually scoring in the 12th minute of the first half through their lethal striker Roger Ledwaba. The goal seemed to spark Peace Lovers into life as they launched numerous attacks through their teenage sensation, Sammy Dikgale and Thabo Mogashoa but Manchester United defended with composure and maturity to thwart all their advances. The experience of Manchester United proved pivotal in the 40th minute of the match when they scored their second goal through their Captain, Sam Nyati following a ruthless counterattack after a Peace Lovers attack which saw their defenders pressing high up, exposing their goalkeeper. The second half was equally competitive with Peace Lovers dominating the majority of ball possession. They were eventually rewarded when their senior player Moraka Sithole, who played gallantly throughout the match, scored in the 67th minute to bring the score to 2-1. That goal gave them impetus to continue pressurising Manchester United for an equaliser but their strikers missed chances until the final whistle. The match between host Madiga Junior Chiefs and Tjale Yellow Tigers was equally exciting. Junior Chiefs kicked off the match with a series of attacks that immediately put Yellow Tigers under pressure. Junior Chiefs took the lead in the 27th minute when their striker Ernest Mapogo beat the off-side trap to score. The goal sparked an instant reaction from Yellow Tigers whose animated coach, Dukes Tjale, kept motivating his players not to rush their attacks. Yellow Tigers finally broke the rock solid defensive partnership of Bomme Mashangoane and Fitjo Rapetsoa to equalise in the 41st minute through Mbesuma Sekgwari. The second half was a balanced pound for pound encounter whose only highlight was in the 77th minute when the referee controversially failed to award what many spectators thought was a clear penalty for Yellow Tigers after their midfielder Willy Moloto was tripped inside the 18 yard area by Junior Chiefs defender Lebo Rakgate. The match ended in a 1- 1 all draw resulting in penalties. Junior Chiefs star player Bommel Mashangoane and their top goal scorer Juju Mothiba missed their penalties while Yellow Tigers scored all theirs to win the match 4-2. Founder and Chairman of the tournament, Solly Malatsi said they were humbled by the incredible support that local teams and football lovers have shown at the tournament and they are looking forward to an semi-final event . We had over 1 000 people on Saturday at the field when Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates were playing and fans still chose to come to our tournament, it is a huge vote of confidence in our initiative. On Sunday our head count was approximately 1 500. On both days the field was packed with spectators, young old, male and female, which encourages us as the SMLegacy Foundation to grow this platform we have creed for grassroots football to grow in leaps and bounds. We want to thank all the fans, teams, players and hawkers selling their products here for an in incident free weekend and we look for the same next weekend. He also revealed that they have secured sponsorship from EMCARE Emergency Medical Care in Polokwane who will be providing them with first aid assistance and injury management for the semi-finals and finals on Sunday. The fact that more and more local businesses and sponsors are approaching us for partnerships shows that we are doing something right about grassroots sports development and community upliftment. We are also grateful that all our sponsors such as Polokwane Observer, Sasol Turfloop, Umbro South Africa, Paledi BuildIT, Spanish La Liga, FutureLife and Score Energy Drink are equally happy with how the tournament was preceded so far. We have lined up some exciting entertainment before the finals which we hope the fans will enjoy, Malatsi said. He also mentioned that they were excited about the quality of football on display at the tourney and they are very confident that at the end of tournament some players will definitely be scouted for assessment with professional soccer teams. The overall winners of the tournament will walk away with a floating trophy, a R10 000 cash prize, brand new soccer kit from Umbro South Africa and gold medals. Fixtures Saturday Quarterfinal 1: Tjale Yellow Tigers vs Makotopong Young Stars at kick-off, 09:30 Quarterfinal 2: Sebayeng Big Four vs Double Class kick-off 12:30 Quarterfinal 3: Makotopong Brazil vs Manchester United kick-off, 13:30 Quarterfinal 4: Tau Tau vs Mankga Junior Chiefs at kick-off, 15:30 Sunday Semi-final 1: Tau Tau or Mankga Junior Chiefs vs Makotopong Young Stars or Tjale Yellow Tigers kick-off, 09:30 Semi-final 2: Sebayeng Big Four or Double Class vs Makotopong Brazil or Manchester United kick-off, 11:30 Story and photos: Herbert Rachuene &gt;&gt;herbert.observer@gmail.com Jackson Talakgale from Mankga Junior Chiefs watches his opponent, Issah Talakgale from Green Aces Football Club head the ball. Tebele Mathosa Blue Birds Football Club is closely watched by Nelson Nkwana from Mankga Junior Chiefs. Steve Ramalepe from Green Aces Football Club and Tshepo Mogwai from Mankga Junior Chiefs battle for the aerial ball. Thufana Sebakwana, goalkeeper of Big Four Football Club kicks the ball during the match against Aces Football Club. Soccer fans who came to support the tournament. Young Stars Football Club s Abraham Letsoalo tries to clear the ball away from Blue Birds Football Club s Isaac Letsoalo. The Executive Committee of Solly Malatsi Legacy top 16 soccer tournament consists of Klatt Mochitele, Co-director, Solly Malatsi, Founder and Chairperson, Ngatha Dikgale, Logistics Manager and Danny Malatsi, Operations Manager. Blue Birds Football Club s Sammy Matlala is tackled by Pedro Letsoalo from Mankga Junior Chiefs.