Startling worldwide statistics pertaining to cross-border human trafficking &#8211; believed to be the fastest growing industry ensuring the enslavement of a percentage of global citizens equal to more than half of South Africa s population &#8211; grip one by the throat when considering that incidents getting recorded in the province ought to contribute to those figures. The risk posed by Limpopo s international borders adds to concern about the clandestine nature of acts of human trafficking finding breeding ground in hotspots like Musina, Crook s Corner on the borders with Zimbabwe and Mozambique and the route leading into the interior from Botswana. The limited availability of statistics on human trafficking in the province and local stakeholders often being seen to be ill equipped to identify modern day slavery, child bribery and labour, trading in human body parts and prostitution add to a countrywide problem which, in turn, impacts on the global picture. A meeting with role players who are active in attempts to prevent human trafficking-related acts in the province shed light on estimates of 1% of a reported 35,8 million trafficked victims across the world managing to escape and someone losing their freedom every 30 seconds after being tricked or trapped. Interviews with Limpopo volunteers representing Stop Trafficking Of People (Stop), a non-governmental organisation advocating the combating of all aspects of human trafficking within South Africa and the rest of the continent, at Mall of the North on Saturday afforded Polokwane Observer a glimpse of the magnitude of the iceberg they get confronted with. Young shopper Maleka Morerwa meets Stop Founder Corinne Sandenbergh during an activation at Mall of the North on Saturday. With them on the photo are Stop Limpopo volunteers Mariska Hyland, Charlotta Beukes and Hiadee von Well with Kgopotso Morerwa. Stop Founder stresses severity of crisis Joining the activists was Stop founder Corinne Sandenbergh, who stressed the countrywide and global crisis due to human trafficking being a complicated and complex form of crime. Now residing in Limpopo, Sandenbergh said Stop had been launched in the Cape in 2008 amid red lights going off on expected sex acts in the build-up to the 2010 Fifa Soccer World Cup. At the time they had opened a safe house in Stellenbosch and worked with victims from Poland, Russia, Romania, China and Thailand who were placed under debt bondage upon their passports, cellphones and identification having been removed and them being forced to work in back rooms or on the streets, she recalled. She pointed at the severity of the matter with a reference to both guns and drugs, considered equally lucrative in the underworld, being purchased in exchange for money while the bodies of victims of human trafficking were repeatedly used. Sandenbergh described Limpopo with its three porous international borders as being very vulnerable to human trafficking with people illegally crossing rivers, climbing through fences and entering in dodgy places. Referring to the Limpopo situation as being explosive, Sandenbergh likened Musina to Baghdad of old having become a city without boundaries and walls, harbouring organised crime, where people passed through and bribery, trickery and corruption were rife. Like all the ports granting access to South Africa, Musina required a major clean-up, Sandenbergh emphasised when underscoring the human trafficking crisis there along with two more problem spots, being Crook s Corner and a location situated on the route leading from the Botswana border. According to her the full implementation of the relevant act that was promulgated in 2015 was expected to take another three years and provincial and local stakeholders were still in the process of being educated on the aspects thereof. She expressed confidence that next year s statistics would be much more evident of the scourge in the province as the rapid response team clamped down. In the same vein she gave honour to the Hawks in Limpopo for their efficient rescue operations. Examples close to home Ironically while interviewing Stop Limpopo volunteer Hiadee von Well on incidents of human trafficking closer to home, an international rescue operation was reportedly underway to save a Free State woman from Malaysia after apparently being lured by a modelling contract. The situation posed to be similar to what Von Well used as example when relating their warnings issued to parents and their children. In the same vein she mentioned Hawks intervention to stop a young suspect from Polokwane allegedly distributing pornographic material of a girl, remaining in therapy, in his tracks early this year. Von Well further relayed being alerted during an awareness campaign at a school near Beit Bridge border post three years back by two teenage girls from respective child-headed families about two adult males intending to return for them the following day. No level of awareness could be more important than knowing they have saved a single individual from the possibility of being trafficked, Von Well emphasised. Around the time of their visit to the border town they had been informed of two young boys being taken to hospital in Musina for their health status to be checked, she said. They, however, couldn t manage to trace the children. By further elaborating on cases in Limpopo, reference to a Tanzanian woman allegedly smuggling human body parts over the border by bus from Zimbabwe in May this year she portrayed the nature of a silent crime that presents itself in various guises. Refugees and asylum seekers ran the risk of becoming pawns in a trafficking network when having to lie with a gun against the head as they were being held against their will or being tricked by false job promises while entering the country without legal documentation, it was learnt. In one instance a Mozambican national had to work in Seshego in return for food instead of remuneration in the past, Von Well said. According to Von Well they were planning training for social workers and other NGOs during Human Trafficking Week, a national initiative in the first week of October, as part of their ongoing engagements across the province. She pointed out that Stop Limpopo s efforts were two-fold, mainly directed at traffic-proofing a vulnerable younger generation in order to teach them the danger signs and preparing other role players for responding to an incident of trafficking. Stop is largely involved with prevention of human trafficking rather than rescue, it was learnt. She reckoned that many organisations in Limpopo have only now became aware of the problem after the promulgation of the law, and she expressed concern over the fact that cases in Limpopo were going by unnoticed due to the fact that certain role players couldn t correctly identify occurrences. The last say was from Sandenbergh, who raised the point that those who kept quiet in the knowledge of such acts were as guilty. Don t hesitate to phone. You can save a life. Whoever requires assistance, has knowledge of suspicious behaviour or a situation requiring reporting is urged to phone the 24-hour toll-free number on 0800 222 777. Hawks feedback In response to questions relating to human trafficking in the province Hawks Limpopo spokesperson Matimba Maluleke said it was not that prevalent in Limpopo, however there was a court case currently ongoing following the arrest of Raymond Sithole in Chebeng near Polokwane in January this year for alleged trafficking of four persons for purposes of job exploitation. Asked which of the crimes resorting under human trafficking were most rife in Limpopo, he said he couldn t say that there were prevalent crimes falling under human trafficking but added that drugs were a problematic crime and that they had just seized drugs worth R1,3 million that were being smuggled. On the issue of hotspots Maluleke said Beit Bridge was seen to be where things are happening . It was not that easy to detect human trafficking, he reckoned, as victims were being lured by traffickers. Usually they are promised greener pastures which later result in human trafficking. Victims realised later that they were deceived. Lastly he was asked whether law enforcers are equipped to efficiently detect and combat such crimes, he responded saying they were busy educating stakeholders and through presentation of their mandate. Story &amp; photos: YOLANDE NEL &gt;&gt;observer.yolande@gmail.com